VocabSearch v1.01)Devolution:The movement of power from the central government to regional governments within the state or breakup of a large state (balkanization) into several independent ones is known as devolution.
2)Rimland theory:The rimland theory developed by Nicholas Spykman suggests that sea power is more valuable and that alliances will keep the heartland in check. The domino theory, a response to the spread of communism, suggests that when one country falls, others around it will experience the same political instability.
3)African Union (AU): an organization of African states that aims to encourage economic development and political stability through increased cooperation between its members. Allocational boundary disputes. problem occurs if there is a rich natural resource straddling the border.
4)Landlocked state:. A state that does not have a direct outlet to the sea. Microstate. A state that encompasses a very small land area.
5)Satellite states:Satellite state. A political term that refers to a country which is formally independent, but under heavy influence or control by another country. Self-determination. the ability of a government to determine their own course of their own free will. Sovereignty.
6)Elongated state:. A state whose territory is long and narrow in shape. Prorupted state. a state that exhibits a narrow, elongated land extension leading away from the main territory. Perforated state.
7)Maritime boundaries:Maritime Boundaries. a conceptual means of division of the water surface of the planet into maritime areas that are defined through surrounding physical geography or by human geography.
8)Antecedent boundaries:antecedent boundary. a political boundary that existed before the cultural landscape emerged and stayed in a place while people moved into occupy the surroundings. boundary. a versatile place that cuts through the rocks below and the airspace above.
9)Self-determination:. the ability of a government to determine their own course of their own free will. Sovereignty. government free from external control. State.
10)Arctic Council":Arctic Council. Intergovernmental forum that addresses issues faced by Arctic governments and indigenous people from the Arctic. Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Organization of southeast Asian countries to promote cultural, economic, or political development.
